

DHC                                                              B. Volz
Internet-Draft                                       Cisco Systems, Inc.
Expires: March 17, 2005                               September 16, 2004


                     The DHCPv6 Client FQDN Option
                   draft-ietf-dhc-dhcpv6-fqdn-00.txt

Status of this Memo

   This document is an Internet-Draft and is subject to all provisions
   of section 3 of RFC 3667.  By submitting this Internet-Draft, each
   author represents that any applicable patent or other IPR claims of
   which he or she is aware have been or will be disclosed, and any of
   which he or she become aware will be disclosed, in accordance with
   RFC 3668.

   Internet-Drafts are working documents of the Internet Engineering
   Task Force (IETF), its areas, and its working groups.  Note that
   other groups may also distribute working documents as
   Internet-Drafts.

   Internet-Drafts are draft documents valid for a maximum of six months
   and may be updated, replaced, or obsoleted by other documents at any
   time.  It is inappropriate to use Internet-Drafts as reference
   material or to cite them other than as "work in progress."

   The list of current Internet-Drafts can be accessed at
   http://www.ietf.org/ietf/1id-abstracts.txt.

   The list of Internet-Draft Shadow Directories can be accessed at
   http://www.ietf.org/shadow.html.

   This Internet-Draft will expire on March 17, 2005.

Copyright Notice

   Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2004).

Abstract

   This document specifies a new DHCP for IPv6, DHCPv6, option which can
   be used to exchange information about a DHCPv6 client's
   fully-qualified domain name and about responsibility for updating DNS
   RRs related to the client's address assignments.







Volz                     Expires March 17, 2005                 [Page 1]

Internet-Draft       The DHCPv6 Client FQDN Option        September 2004


Table of Contents

   1.  Introduction . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3
   2.  Terminology  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3
   3.  Models of Operation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  3
   4.  The DHCPv6 Client FQDN Option  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4
     4.1   The Flags Field  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  5
     4.2   The Domain Name Field  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  6
   5.  DHCPv6 Client behavior . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  7
   6.  DHCPv6 Server Behavior . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  8
   7.  DNS Update Conflicts . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9
   8.  Security Considerations  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  9
   9.  Acknowledgements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
   10.   References . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
   10.1  Normative References . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10
   10.2  Informative References . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
       Author's Address . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11
       Intellectual Property and Copyright Statements . . . . . . . . 12

































Volz                     Expires March 17, 2005                 [Page 2]

Internet-Draft       The DHCPv6 Client FQDN Option        September 2004


1.  Introduction

   DNS ([2], [3]) maintains (among other things) the information about
   mapping between hosts' Fully Qualified Domain Names (FQDNs) [8] and
   IP addresses assigned to the hosts.  The information is maintained in
   two types of Resource Records (RRs): AAAA and PTR [11].  The DNS
   update specification ([4]) describes a mechanism that enables DNS
   information to be updated over a network.

   The Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol for IPv6 (DHCPv6) [5]
   provides a mechanism by which a host (a DHCPv6 client) can acquire
   certain configuration information, along with its stateful IPv6
   address(es).  This document specifies a new DHCPv6 option, the Client
   FQDN option, which can be used by DHCPv6 clients and servers to
   exchange information about the client's fully-qualified domain name
   and who has the responsibility for updating the DNS with the
   associated AAAA and PTR RRs.

2.  Terminology

   The key words "MUST", "MUST NOT", "REQUIRED", "SHALL", "SHALL NOT",
   "SHOULD", "SHOULD NOT", "RECOMMENDED", "MAY", and "OPTIONAL" in this
   document are to be interpreted as described in [1].

   Familiarity with the DNS Update protocol [4], DHCPv6, and DHCPv6
   terminology as defined in [5] is assumed.

3.  Models of Operation

   When a DHCPv6 client acquires an address, a site's administrator may
   desire that the AAAA RR for the client's FQDN and the PTR RR for the
   acquired address be updated.  Therefore, two separate DNS update
   transactions may occur.  Acquiring an address via DHCPv6 involves two
   entities: a DHCPv6 client and a DHCPv6 server.  In principle each of
   these entities could perform none, one, or both of the DNS update
   transactions.  However, in practice not all permutations make sense.
   The DHCPv6 Client FQDN option is primarily intended to operate in the
   following two cases:

   1.  DHCPv6 client updates the AAAA RR, DHCPv6 server updates the PTR
       RR
   2.  DHCPv6 server updates both the AAAA and the PTR RRs

   The only difference between these two cases is whether the FQDN to
   IPv6 address mapping is updated by a DHCPv6 client or by a DHCPv6
   server.  The IPv6 address to FQDN mapping is updated by a DHCPv6
   server in both cases.




Volz                     Expires March 17, 2005                 [Page 3]

Internet-Draft       The DHCPv6 Client FQDN Option        September 2004


   The reason these two are important, while others are unlikely, has to
   do with authority over the respective DNS domain names.  A DHCPv6
   client may be given authority over mapping its own AAAA RRs, or that
   authority may be restricted to a server to prevent the client from
   listing arbitrary addresses or associating its addresses with
   arbitrary domain names.  In all cases, the only reasonable place for
   the authority over the PTR RRs associated with the address is in the
   DHCPv6 server that allocates the address.

   Note: A third case is supported - the client requests that the server
   perform no updates.  However, this case is presumed to be rare
   because of the authority issues.

   In any case, whether a site permits all, some, or no DHCPv6 servers
   and clients to perform DNS updates into the zones which it controls
   is entirely a matter of local administrative policy.  This document
   does not require any specific administrative policy, and does not
   propose one.  The range of possible policies is very broad, from
   sites where only the DHCPv6 servers have been given credentials that
   the DNS servers will accept, to sites where each individual DHCPv6
   client has been configured with credentials which allow the client to
   modify its own domain name.  Compliant implementations MAY support
   some or all of these possibilities.  Furthermore, this specification
   applies only to DHCPv6 client and server processes: it does not apply
   to other processes which initiate DNS updates.

   This document describes a new DHCPv6 option which a client can use to
   convey all or part of its domain name to a DHCPv6 server.
   Site-specific policy determines whether DHCPv6 servers use the names
   that clients offer or not, and what DHCPv6 servers may do in cases
   where clients do not supply domain names.

   Other work, such as "Resolving Name Conflicts" [6], may define
   procedures for establishing policy and arbitrating conflicts when
   collisions occur in the use of FQDNs by DHCPv6 clients.

4.  The DHCPv6 Client FQDN Option

   To update the IPv6 address to FQDN mapping a DHCPv6 server needs to
   know the FQDN of the client for the addresses in a binding.  To allow
   the client to convey its FQDN to the server this document defines a
   new DHCPv6 option, called "Client FQDN".  The Client FQDN option also
   contains Flags which DHCPv6 clients and servers use to negotiate who
   does which updates.

   The code for this option is TBD.  Its minimum length is 2.





Volz                     Expires March 17, 2005                 [Page 4]

Internet-Draft       The DHCPv6 Client FQDN Option        September 2004


   The Format of the DHCPv6 Client FQDN option is shown below:

        0                   1                   2                   3
        0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 0 1
       +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
       |          OPTION_FQDN          |         option-len            |
       +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
       |   flags       |                                               |
       +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+                                               |
       .                                                               .
       .                          domain-name                          .
       .                                                               .
       +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+

         option-code      OPTION_CLIENT_FQDN (TBD)

         option-len       1 + length of domain name

         flags            flag bits used between client and server to
                          negotiate who performs which updates

         domain-name      the partial or fully qualified domain name
                          (with length option-len - 1)


   The Client FQDN option MUST only appear in IA_NA-options and
   IA_TA-options (see [12]) fields and applies to all addresses for that
   binding.

4.1  The Flags Field

   The Format of the Flags field:

        0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7
       +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+
       |  MBZ    |N|O|S|
       +-+-+-+-+-+-+-+-+


   When a DHCPv6 client sends the Client FQDN option, it sets the "S"
   bit to indicate that it will not perform any DNS updates, and that it
   expects the DHCPv6 server to perform any FQDN-to-IPv6 (the AAAA RR)
   DNS updates on its behalf.  If this bit is clear, the client
   indicates that it intends to perform the FQDN-to-IPv6 DNS updates.

   If a DHCPv6 server intends to take responsibility for the AAAA RR
   updates, whether or not the client sending the Client FQDN option has
   set the "S" bit, it sets both the "O" and "S" bits, and sends the



Volz                     Expires March 17, 2005                 [Page 5]

Internet-Draft       The DHCPv6 Client FQDN Option        September 2004


   Client FQDN option in its response message.  Clients SHOULD clear the
   "O" bit before sending the Client FQDN option and servers MUST ignore
   the received state of the "O" bit.

   A client MAY set the "N" bit in its request messages to indicate that
   the server should not perform any DNS updates on its behalf.  As
   mentioned in Section 3, in general the DHCPv6 server will be
   maintaining DNS PTR records on behalf of clients.  However, there may
   be deployments in which clients are configured to perform all desired
   DNS updates or may not want any DNS updates.  The server MAY be
   configured to honor this configuration.  If the server has been
   configured to honor a client's "N" indication, it SHOULD set the "N"
   bit in Client FQDN options which it sends to the client in its
   response messages.  Clients which have set the "N" bit in their
   requests SHOULD use the state of the "N" bit in server responses to
   determine whether the server was prepared to honor the client's
   indication.  If a client has set the "N" bit but its server does not,
   the client SHOULD conclude that the server was not configured to
   honor the client's suggestion, and that the server may attempt to
   perform DNS updates on its behalf.

   The remaining bits in the Flags field are reserved for future
   assignment.  DHCPv6 clients and servers which send the Client FQDN
   option MUST set the MBZ bits to 0, and they MUST ignore these bits.

4.2  The Domain Name Field

   The Domain Name field of the option carries all or part of the FQDN
   of a DHCPv6 client.  The data in the Domain Name field MUST appear in
   uncompressed DNS encoding as specified in [3].  In order to determine
   whether a name has changed between message exchanges, an unambiguous
   canonical form is necessary.  Eventually, the IETF IDN Working Group
   is expected to produce a standard canonicalization specification, and
   this specification may be updated to include its standard.  Until
   that time, servers and clients should be sensitive to
   canonicalization when comparing names in the Domain Name field and
   the name canonicalization defined in [9] MAY be used.

   A client may be configured with a fully-qualified domain name, or
   with a partial name that is not fully-qualified.  If a client knows
   only part of its name, it MAY send a name that is not
   fully-qualified, indicating that it knows part of the name but does
   not necessarily know the zone in which the name is to be embedded.  A
   client which wants to convey part of its FQDN sends a non-terminal
   sequence of labels in the domain name field of the option.  Clients
   and servers should assume that the name field contains a
   fully-qualified name unless this partial-name format exists.




Volz                     Expires March 17, 2005                 [Page 6]

Internet-Draft       The DHCPv6 Client FQDN Option        September 2004


   Servers MUST always send the complete fully-qualified domain name in
   Client FQDN options.

5.  DHCPv6 Client behavior

   The following describes the behavior of a DHCPv6 client that
   implements the Client FQDN option.

   A client MUST only include Client FQDN options in the IA_NA-options
   and IA_TA-options fields in SOLICIT, REQUEST, RENEW, or REBIND
   messages.

   A client that sends the Client FQDN option MUST also include the
   option in the Option Request option if it expects the server to
   include the Client FQDN option in any responses.

   A client sends the Client FQDN option with no Flags bits set, the "S"
   Flags bit set, or the "N" Flags bit set and with the desired partial
   or fully qualified domain name.

   There is no requirement that the client send identical Client FQDN
   options data in each of its messages to a server.  In particular, if
   a client has sent Client FQDN options to its server, and the
   configuration of the client changes so that its notion of its domain
   name changes, it MAY send the new name data in a Client FQDN options
   when it communicates with the server again.  This may cause the
   DHCPv6 server to update the name associated with the PTR record, and,
   if the server updated the AAAA record representing the client, to
   delete that record and attempt an update for the client's current
   domain name.

   Once the client's DHCPv6 configuration is completed (the client
   receives a REPLY message, and successfully completes a final check on
   the parameters passed in the message), the client SHOULD originate
   the DNS updates for the AAAA RR (associated with the client's FQDNs)
   for any Client FQDN options for which the received "S" and the "O"
   bits in the option's Flags field are not set and if it is otherwise
   configured to perform the DNS updates.  The update SHOULD be
   originated following the procedures described in [4].  If the DHCPv6
   server from which the client is requesting addresses includes Client
   FQDN options in its REPLY message, and if the server sets both the
   "S" and "O" bits in the option's Flags field, the DHCPv6 client MUST
   NOT initiate an update for the name in the Domain Name field and the
   addresses in that binding.

   A client that delegates the responsibility for updating the
   FQDN-to-IPv6 address mapping to a server does not receive any
   indication (either positive or negative) from the server whether the



Volz                     Expires March 17, 2005                 [Page 7]

Internet-Draft       The DHCPv6 Client FQDN Option        September 2004


   server was able to perform the update.  If the client needs to
   confirm the DNS update, it SHOULD use a DNS query to check whether
   the mapping is updated.

   If a client releases an address prior to the valid lifetime
   expiration or is unable to extend the lifetimes for an address and
   the valid lifetime expires, and the client is responsible for
   updating its AAAA RRs, the client SHOULD delete the AAAA RR
   associated with the address before sending a RELEASE message or the
   lifetime expires.  A DHCPv6 client which has not been able to delete
   an AAAA RR which it added (because it has lost the use of addresses
   of sufficient scope to communicate with the DNS server or has
   exhausted retry limits) should attempt to notify its administrator,
   perhaps by emitting a log message.

6.  DHCPv6 Server Behavior

   Servers MUST only include Client FQDN options for a binding in
   ADVERTISE and REPLY messages if the client included a Client FQDN
   option for that binding and the Client FQDN option is requested by
   the Option Request Option in the client's message to which the server
   is responding.  Servers MUST only include Client FQDN options in the
   IA_NA-options and IA_TA-options fields in messages sent by the
   server.

   When a server allocates a new address from a binding, it uses the
   Client FQDN option, if any, in the IA_NA-options or IA_TA-options
   field of that binding to determine the fully qualified domain name
   and who will take responsibility for the DNS updates.  It records the
   results in the Client FQDN option.  The DHCPv6 server SHOULD send its
   notion of the complete FQDN for the client in the Domain Name field.
   The server MAY simply copy the Domain Name field from the Client FQDN
   option that the client sent to the server.  The DHCPv6 server MAY be
   configured to complete or modify the domain name which a client sent,
   or it MAY be configured to substitute a different name.

   If a client's SOLICIT, REQUEST, RENEW, or REBIND message doesn't
   include the Client FQDN option for a binding (e.g., the client
   doesn't implement the Client FQDN option), the server MAY be
   configured to update either or both of the AAAA and PTR RRs.

   If a client's message includes a Client FQDN option for a binding and
   the requested domain-name is different from the server's current
   knowledge of the fully-qualified domain name and the server is
   configured to allow use of that name, the server SHOULD perform the
   necessary DNS updates - the server SHOULD remove the old PTR and AAAA
   RRs it added, if any, and add the new RRs - if it has that
   responsibility.



Volz                     Expires March 17, 2005                 [Page 8]

Internet-Draft       The DHCPv6 Client FQDN Option        September 2004


   When a server receives a RELEASE or DECLINE for an address, detects
   that the valid lifetime on an address that the server bound to a
   client has expired, or terminates a binding on an address prior to
   the binding's expiration time (for instance, by sending a REPLY with
   a zero valid lifetime for an address), the server SHOULD delete any
   PTR RRs which it associated with the address via DNS update.  In
   addition, if the server took responsibility for the AAAA RR, the
   server SHOULD also delete that AAAA RR.

   A server MAY initiate and complete the DNS update(s) before the
   server sends the REPLY message to the client.  Alternatively, the
   server MAY send the REPLY message to the client without waiting for
   the update to be initiated or completed.  The choice between the two
   alternatives is entirely determined by the configuration of the
   DHCPv6 server.  Servers SHOULD support both configuration options.

   If the server initiates a DNS update that is not complete until after
   the server has replied to the client, the server's interaction with
   the DNS server may cause the DHCPv6 server to change the domain name
   that it associates with an address for the client.  This may occur,
   for example, if the server detects and resolves a domain-name
   conflict.  In such cases, the domain name that the server returns to
   the client may change between two DHCPv6 exchanges.

7.  DNS Update Conflicts

   This document does not resolve how a DHCPv6 client or server prevent
   name conflicts.  This document addresses only how a DHCPv6 client and
   server negotiate the fully qualified domain name and who will perform
   the DNS updates.

   Implementers of this work will need to consider how name conflicts
   will be prevented.  It may be that the DNS updater must hold a
   security token in order to successfully perform DNS updates on a
   specific name, in which case name conflicts can only occur if
   multiple clients are given a security token for that name.  Or, the
   fully qualified domains may be based on the specific address bound to
   a client or the client's DUID, and in these cases conflicts should
   not occur.  However, without this level of security in the DNS system
   or use of non-conflicting names, other techniques need to be
   developed.  This is an area for future work (see [6]).

8.  Security Considerations

   Unauthenticated updates to the DNS can lead to tremendous confusion,
   through malicious attack or through inadvertent misconfiguration.
   Administrators should be wary of permitting unsecured DNS updates to
   zones which are exposed to the global Internet.  Both DHCPv6 clients



Volz                     Expires March 17, 2005                 [Page 9]

Internet-Draft       The DHCPv6 Client FQDN Option        September 2004


   and servers SHOULD use some form of update request origin
   authentication procedure (e.g., Secure DNS Dynamic Update [10]) when
   performing DNS updates.

   Whether a DHCPv6 client may be responsible for updating an FQDN to
   IPv6 address mapping or whether this is the responsibility of the
   DHCPv6 server is a site-local matter.  The choice between the two
   alternatives may be based on the security model that is used with the
   DNS update protocol (e.g., only a client may have sufficient
   credentials to perform updates to the FQDN to IP address mapping for
   its FQDN).

   Whether a DHCPv6 server is always responsible for updating the FQDN
   to IPv6 address mapping (in addition to updating the IPv6 to FQDN
   mapping), regardless of the wishes of an individual DHCPv6 client, is
   also a site-local matter.  The choice between the two alternatives
   may be based on the security model that is being used with DNS
   updates.  In cases where a DHCPv6 server is performing DNS updates on
   behalf of a client, the DHCPv6 server should be sure of the DNS name
   to use for the client, and of the identity of the client.

   Depending on the prescence of or type of authentication used with the
   Authentication option, a DHCPv6 server may not have much confidence
   in the identities of its clients.  There are many ways for a DHCPv6
   server to develop a DNS name to use for a client, but only in certain
   circumstances will the DHCPv6 server know for certain the identity of
   the client.

9.  Acknowledgements

   Many thanks to Mark Stapp and Yakov Rekhter as this document is based
   on the DHCPv4 Client FQDN option (draft-ietf-dhc-fqdn-option [7]).
   And, to Ted Lemon, Mark Stapp, Josh Littlefield, Kim Kinnear, and
   Ralph Droms for discussions on this work.

10.  References

10.1  Normative References

   [1]  Bradner, S., "Key words for use in RFCs to Indicate Requirement
        Levels", BCP 14, RFC 2119, March 1997.

   [2]  Mockapetris, P., "Domain names - concepts and facilities", STD
        13, RFC 1034, November 1987.

   [3]  Mockapetris, P., "Domain names - implementation and
        specification", STD 13, RFC 1035, November 1987.




Volz                     Expires March 17, 2005                [Page 10]

Internet-Draft       The DHCPv6 Client FQDN Option        September 2004


   [4]  Vixie, P., Thomson, S., Rekhter, Y. and J. Bound, "Dynamic
        Updates in the Domain Name System (DNS UPDATE)", RFC 2136, April
        1997.

   [5]  Droms, R., Bound, J., Volz, B., Lemon, T., Perkins, C. and M.
        Carney, "Dynamic Host Configuration Protocol for IPv6 (DHCPv6)",
        RFC 3315, July 2003.

10.2  Informative References

   [6]   Stapp, M., "Resolution of DNS Name Conflicts Among DHCP Clients
         (draft-ietf-dhc-ddns-resolution-*.txt)", October 2003.

   [7]   Stapp, M., Volz, B. and Y. Rekhter, "The DHCP Client FQDN
         Option (draft-ietf-dhc-fqdn-option-*.txt)", July 2004.

   [8]   Marine, A., Reynolds, J. and G. Malkin, "FYI on Questions and
         Answers - Answers to Commonly asked "New Internet User"
         Questions", RFC 1594, March 1994.

   [9]   Eastlake, D., "Domain Name System Security Extensions", RFC
         2535, March 1999.

   [10]  Wellington, B., "Secure Domain Name System (DNS) Dynamic
         Update", RFC 3007, November 2000.

   [11]  Thomson, S., Huitema, C., Ksinant, V. and M. Souissi, "DNS
         Extensions to Support IP Version 6", RFC 3596, October 2003.

   [12]  Narten, T. and R. Draves, "Privacy Extensions for Stateless
         Address Autoconfiguration in IPv6", RFC 3041, January 2001.


Author's Address

   Bernard Volz
   Cisco Systems, Inc.
   1414 Massachusetts Ave.
   Boxborough, MA  01719
   USA

   Phone: +1 978 936 0382
   EMail: volz@cisco.com








Volz                     Expires March 17, 2005                [Page 11]

Internet-Draft       The DHCPv6 Client FQDN Option        September 2004


Intellectual Property Statement

   The IETF takes no position regarding the validity or scope of any
   Intellectual Property Rights or other rights that might be claimed to
   pertain to the implementation or use of the technology described in
   this document or the extent to which any license under such rights
   might or might not be available; nor does it represent that it has
   made any independent effort to identify any such rights.  Information
   on the procedures with respect to rights in RFC documents can be
   found in BCP 78 and BCP 79.

   Copies of IPR disclosures made to the IETF Secretariat and any
   assurances of licenses to be made available, or the result of an
   attempt made to obtain a general license or permission for the use of
   such proprietary rights by implementers or users of this
   specification can be obtained from the IETF on-line IPR repository at
   http://www.ietf.org/ipr.

   The IETF invites any interested party to bring to its attention any
   copyrights, patents or patent applications, or other proprietary
   rights that may cover technology that may be required to implement
   this standard.  Please address the information to the IETF at
   ietf-ipr@ietf.org.


Disclaimer of Validity

   This document and the information contained herein are provided on an
   "AS IS" basis and THE CONTRIBUTOR, THE ORGANIZATION HE/SHE REPRESENTS
   OR IS SPONSORED BY (IF ANY), THE INTERNET SOCIETY AND THE INTERNET
   ENGINEERING TASK FORCE DISCLAIM ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED,
   INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ANY WARRANTY THAT THE USE OF THE
   INFORMATION HEREIN WILL NOT INFRINGE ANY RIGHTS OR ANY IMPLIED
   WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.


Copyright Statement

   Copyright (C) The Internet Society (2004).  This document is subject
   to the rights, licenses and restrictions contained in BCP 78, and
   except as set forth therein, the authors retain all their rights.


Acknowledgment

   Funding for the RFC Editor function is currently provided by the
   Internet Society.




Volz                     Expires March 17, 2005                [Page 12]


